Carlos, we've heard everyone talk
many times about the personality test,
and I think there are a lot of people
who don't take it seriously, because
what's been done is, with the aim
of making them easier to understand,
because it seems that they're
a bit naive, with a lot of color
and stories of those, right?
But I really believe that it is
a valuable tool that helps you
understand yourself, that helps
you understand others, and I
would like you to tell us,
to begin with, what are the
concrete benefits we will
get using or putting in practice
a personality test?
Because there is a first benefit
that we normally always have heard
the advice of treating others as
you want to be treated, and that
to see, it's not bad, but really
what you need to do is treat others
as they want to be treated, and
that's a very subtle but very powerful
difference, because not everyone
wants to be treated as you,
and that depends on the personality,
and precisely these personality
tests what they help you
is to identify the personality
of the person you interact
with to be able to treat
him as he wants to be treated.
That is the main advantage,
and then of course there are
many others, better communicate
with people, be able to assign
tasks to teams that work
in a certain way and have to
understand each other, resolve
conflicts, but if you want
to talk about the area where
it is applied in companies,
for example, companies are using
this type of tools to
select personnel or to form
sales teams or to assign tasks
or decide promotions, for
example, then clearly it is very
powerful, because in a sales
team you don't have to have
just one type of personality,
you have to try to have all
types of personality
because customers have all
types of personality,
not only have one, so if you
do a very monolithic, very
uniform sales team, you
are not achieving the goal
of reaching a broader target.
Carlos, we already understand
the benefits of doing a personality
test, then I will tell my case,
how it helped me, above, and I would
like you to explain to us or
that we put hands on the work,
we will do it.
Perfect, because we will see
two types of test or methodologies
to classify our personality,
one of them is deeper, it is called
the Myers-Briggs test and good
because it classifies people
in 16 different personality
types according to four axes,
we will leave a link so that
people can do this test, we
must answer a series of questions
and take one to make a more simplified
version, we will explain
here a more simplified version
of this test that is called
the four-color test and instead
of four axes we classify
people according to two
axes, what are these
two axes?
The first axis is
extrovert-introvert, that is,
each would now have to recognize
himself if he is more
introverted, that is, if he is a
more quiet, observing, detail-centered,
individual, reserved, reflective
person or if he is more extroverted,
speaker, participative,
focused on general ideas, who
is more related to groups, more
direct, who says things as he
thinks them or more of action,
that would be extroverted.
What we have to go do all is,
as you are describing the axes,
the characteristics of the
personality, what we
have to go do all is see where we
identify, so that is, that's how we
have to focus this class, I here
in introverted-extroverted would
add a question, a criterion that
you earn energy when you are alone,
you need every day your space
and there is when, I don't know,
when you charge energy, or it's
the reverse, or you charge with
people, and the same question
otherwise is, if you have to spend
three days in a row with a lot
of people, you end up exhausted
or you charge?
I think it's easy to answer that question,
because people see themselves in
one place or another.
It is fantastic Borja, because so
it helps us to place ourselves in
each of the two axes, there is another
question that people can ask and
is, in stressful situations,
do we want someone to comfort us,
talk to us, or do we want
ourselves to go through the
crisis alone or, say, reset us?
That is related to what you said
before, therefore, it serves us
to classify ourselves.
I think it's very easy for all of
us to answer that, depending on
whether we're stressed, like to
be alone or like to be with more
people, we're either introverted
or extroverted.
And one thing I want to clarify here is
that being introverted or extroverted
has nothing to do with being nice, it
has nothing to do with being introverted
or extroverted.
So reliable, not exactly.
You can be very good with people,
you can be a very winning
person with other people,
but you are introverted.
I say it because there are people
who think, introverted, shy and
ranky, then no.
No, it does not have to be so.
In other words, an introvert
can be a leader.
This is true, and in many
cases it is.
Well, and the second axis is whether,
when we make decisions, we let
ourselves be guided more
by rationality, by the brain,
or more by the heart, by the feeling.
That is, if we care more what,
what is rational, or who, the feeling.
We have the two axes and
the four personality types.
To, say, classify ourselves
in a simpler way, we have given color.
The cold colors are the colors
of the introverts.
Blue is the rational introvert
and green is the introvert
who followed the feelings.
The hot colors are those of the
extroverts.
Red is the rational extrovertible
and yellow is the extrovertible
that followed by the feeling.
To help us rank in each of
these blocks, let's identify
each of these colors
with a word.
The blue, rational introvert, is
to do it right.
The green, which is introverted in
feeling, is to do it with affection.
The red, which is the rational extrovert,
is let's do it now.
And the yellow, which is
the extroverted guided by feeling,
is let's do it together.
I think this helps a lot so that
we make every effort to identify
where we are.
Because it's true that from the
two axes, well, I think we can
go making a little idea, but
sometimes it's not easy at all.
Because there are people who are not
at the extremes of introverted,
extroverted or rational, emotional.
But as you tell us,
this will help us locate.
There is another goal we can reach.
What causes us stress?
For the blue, what causes them
stress is the lack of preparation.
They are the rational introverts.
Lack of preparation.
Emotional introverts, what causes
them to stress is feeling undervalued.
The red, who are the rational
extroverts, what causes them to
stress is to lose control,
to have the feeling that they
have no control over what
is happening.
And the yellow, who are
the extroverts guided by
feeling, feel excluded.
They do not want to feel excluded from the group.
This, obviously, is what makes us
help to locate ourselves in each
of these colors.
As you said, we are all a mixture
of different colors.
There are some that we will be more
at some extreme, but the normal thing
is that we have components of the four.
It is a matter of seeing where we
feel most recognized.
What does each of the four
colors need?
Well, because blue needs data,
precision, methodology, models.
Green needs time, values, and harmony.
The red needs action, the practical
part, alternatives, focus on the
subject.
And yellow, images, social contact,
protagonism.
I think it is easy to do this
analysis from the work perspective
in our work.
What do we need to
be calm?
To be safe and
to...
One thing is important, there is no
personality more innovative than
another.
They can all innovate, but from different
perspectives and motivations.
That is the fun.
As you said before, an introvert
is not someone who doesn't
relate to anyone.
Instead, you have an introverted
personality and be a leader.
That is, there is no reason...
I, watching and doing the analysis, think
I was born without the emotional
part, because I see myself
absolutely above everything.
In red and blue, right?
But, let's go, something extreme.
I've always been guided by rationality,
by the brain, right?
Well, for the photo to complete,
blue is impartial, objective,
analytical, formal.
Green is quiet, calm, serene,
conciliating.
Red is positive, bold, firm and
energetic.
And yellow is cheerful, inspiring,
animated and optimistic.
I would recommend that you
do four exercises.
All of us do these 4 exercises.
The first thing is to do the test of
the four colors for yourself.
With what we have explained, I think
you can already place yourself more
in one color than in another and do the
test for yourself.
The second exercise is to send
the screen, the characteristics
of this test of the four colors
to people who know us to see
where they place us, to see if
it matches or not, or if it differs
from the others.
This is the second exercise.
The third exercise is to test
the four colors with what we
know of other people, to see
where we place them.
The fourth exercise will be where they
are seen.
One thing is how we see them
and another is where they see themselves
to be able to contrast.
Basically, it is done for...
To do the test is to
do it and to ask the other
people.
And then it's to do the test with the
most important people in your life.
Actually, that is it.
And we will do the same.
We analyze them first and
then ask them to see if
they actually share
the conclusions.
In addition, this can be done
in the personal area, with
the people we usually relate
to, but also in the workplace,
if we have confidence
with our colleagues,
with our bosses, etc.
This gives you a lot of valuable
information so that you
can use it.
And the last exercise of all, which
is the fifth, is that we do
the full test.
The test of the 16 personalities
of Myers Briggs, which link is www.16personalities.com.
We will give you the link so you can see it.
Because really, people who have done
the test, according to the website
that we have given you, say
that the test is so accurate
that it is a bit scary.
Look, I mean yes.
I lived in this case two years
ago, more or less.
After a separation, etc., well, I wanted
to understand things, I wanted
to understand things.
About yourself.
And yes, I did the test.
Well, more than doing the test, what
I did was analyze the whole
model, etc.
And I saw myself very clearly in one
of the 16 personality types, which is INTJ.
Basically, what I saw was that it was
very extreme, especially in, I'm
ultra-rational and I'm ultra-intuitive.
So, of course, by being extreme, the
people you do and you are extreme in
something, it's easier to identify yourself.
Because if you're in the middle
of many, it's harder to see yourself positioned.
I quickly realized what kind of
person he was.
I wanted to search for it on the internet.
And on the internet I saw that there
were many testimonials and they recommend
the type of work you have to have.
They compare you to people who are familiar with
you, who are of the same profile as you.
And it was really scary, because
I felt absolutely identified
with everything they said
about the INTJs.
That in fact is a personality
of many leaders, of people who
are able to organize, to build,
to undertake.
He really has a profile like that.
There are many entrepreneurs.
Exactly, you have just that
guy, right?
Like, for example, yellow
personalities, those who are extroverted,
who followed by feeling, are
usually personalities
of people who are artistic
professions, actors, dancers,
that type of people or artists.
It is curious.
This has a great impact on professional
development.
For example, people who are in medicine,
physical therapy, for example,
tend to be more sensory,
less intuitive, more emotional,
and less rational, etc.
I think that with this exercise
will be very powerful and
we will have information
to use it in our lives.
Anyone who wants to share the
results in the forums will
be welcome.
very well.